in southern Morocco this is women's work
they're shelling Argan nuts getting
ready to extract the oil the women of
Tommen are have been doing this for
centuries but these women are working
together for themselves in rural
Morocco's first all women cooperative
it's changing their town it's changing
their lives in traditional Berber
culture women don't work outside the
home they're not allowed to go to market
and they're rarely seen in public in
Morocco's cities it's not unusual for
women to have jobs but out here in the
country that's still a long way off but
when this woman came to town everything
changed it all started with a tree
environmental chemist subete assha roof
studies the Argan tree it's common in
Morocco but it grows nowhere else in the
world
yeah exactly some elective c'est la
deuxième stands for a CEO mark me Odaiba
de available ya na tu ta fête don't want
religion is wasn't with Annika travail
your own peril a bad decision
ekta c'est beaucoup it's not a
mysterious disease or natural disaster
that's endangering the organ the threat
comes from people cutting them down to
clear cropland or burning them for fuel
but the worst damage isn't caused by
people but by their goats when there's
nothing to eat on the ground
the goats climb the trees balanced in
the branches they eat the organs leaves
flowers and fruits it may seem like a
minor problem but it's doing major
damage and not just to the trees but to
the whole environment the argan has
unusually deep roots which holds soil
together in this dry landscape when
trees are killed the ground just blows
away turning the land to desert the
damage is permanent and michio kaku soft
my community local Dola cassava son
Lizbeth román pricks tanake
economic more interest on the set many
Allah even send a steel tempest all
natural for a concern we square Kinsella
you reported large on Eve apparently the
Amal cooperative is her solution and
it's helping more than the trees or Kia
L haseen was one of the cooperatives
first members a widowed mother of ten
struggling to raise four grandchildren
she was desperate for a way to make ends
meet
Makena ambassador in a seminar in Delhi
sex but I'm not su are in place nearly
150 women work here processing Argan nut
oils for sale all over the world selling
products made from its fruits and nuts
is a sustainable use for the tree but
until now it was only a cottage industry
with modern equipment the co-operative
is a modern factory even marketing his
products on the internet selling oil for
cooking cosmetics and animal feed Amal
makes a profit which is reinvested and
shared by its members it's a typical
worker owned business but intamin are
working women are anything but typical
Amina a tokati says the town was
skeptical that women could run a
business men were afraid to let their
wives go to work today leisurely social
Geno mentality is Alexei geologically
clearly funky edgy they advocate affirm
is the deal is a little cozy on takuna
from chief Tina from homey Laura it
prefer lukaszewski self isn't a result
the amok whopper it is now the region's
biggest earner
as a result Tom Inari's are looking at
the Argan
citizen exhaustion immortality in the
Sun back over the continent agony you do
the police Alicia with a couple
miserable the project has given the
people of Tommen are a reason to protect
the Argan tree now women are teaching
their children about conservation and 2%
of amals profits go to planting trees
things are looking up for the Argan and
thanks to the argan they're looking up
for the women of Tommen are too